hey how's it going Dave TD here
so with 2019 rolling in we're gonna
start to see a lot of advertisements for
5g enabled smartphones and the benefits
of the 5g network and the reality is a
properly rolled out 5g network is great
you get super fast internet speeds you
get lower latency you get the ability to
connect a lot more devices to that
superfast internet but to get to that
stage to get to that point where it's
like the Internet of Things and
everything is connected and talking to
each other on the superfast network you
need to overcome a very large obstacle
and this large obstacle kind of cast
some shade on this whole 5g smartphone
thing it's the difference in 5g
wavelength 5g signals act very
differently from the traditional lower
frequency 4G wavelengths 5g signals have
significantly shorter range and weaker
penetration than a 4G signal so things
like walls those obviously affect the
way that 5g signals get through but even
something like a tree or an object or
another human being between you and a 5g
cell tower will affect the signal
strength even the way that you hold your
phone like if this was a 5g enabled
phone if your hand is covering the
antenna it will attenuate the signal
even stuff like weather effects like
rain fog snow that can reduce the signal
strength of 5g frequencies so the
solution to this the workaround to this
problem is kind of primitive they're
basically flooding cities that are going
to be 5g enabled with a ton of cell
towers so basically this is not an
exaggeration we're in an ideal situation
you want cell towers are basically every
single street lamp that's a ton of them
and in an office building they're gonna
be everywhere because you need to have
as clear of a line of sight between your
phone and a signal and a signal tower to
be able to use the 5g network properly
now the problem with that is well in
terms of the network side is it's very
difficult and very slow to build up an
infrastructure like that like all the
permits all the requirements to get
stuff like that done plus there's
pushback from communities right not
everyone wants to be like surrounded by
these cell towers and there's the issues
of like health risks like there's not a
lot of long-term studies of EMF
radiation from these new towers so for
early adopters it
a long time before 5g enabled phones can
actually take advantage of real 5g
connectivity that's just the nature of
this rollout it's not an easy rollout
and that's just the network side of
things when it comes to phone hardware
there are a whole slew of other
obstacles 5g enabled phones are gonna be
crazy expensive at launch so Pete Lau
CEO of oneplus he was saying that there
5g nabel's phones are gonna cost two to
three hundred dollars more than their
regular 4G phones and this is like a 550
$600 phone you throw on that 5g tax this
is now an 800 or $900 phone this used to
be a very reasonable kind of nut budget
phone but it's like a fairly priced
phone and now it's like in that crazy
price point because of 5g capabilities
that new Snapdragon 855 needs a separate
5g modem and multiple antenna modules to
make this thing work on the 5g network
and the reason why you need so many
antenna modules is because of the
problem I was mentioning before if your
hands cover any of the antennas it
doesn't work you need to have multiple
antennas that it intelligently switches
between to allow this thing to connect
seamlessly with the network it's
difficult to do it's expensive to do and
it's going to cost the consumer a lot
there's also the issue of shorter
battery life so because you're
transmitting and receiving 5g signals
it's gonna invariably use more power
than the regular 4G version it's I mean
you're gonna get better speeds of course
it's the new network but again the whole
premise of 5g promise something like 10
times or 20 times the speed of 4G which
in theory sounds great and maybe in the
future we'll get there but in the
beginning when it first rolls out we're
gonna get like that Snapdragon 855 the
modem on there I forget the name of it
but the modem that 5g modem can only hit
I think two and a half times what the 4G
network can hit so again it's faster but
it's not gonna be 10 X or 20 X it's
gonna be quite a few years before we hit
those speeds and it's not like I'm
taking a dump on 5g I feel like the
technology is awesome and we're in Ewa
tably gonna get there this video is more
for the people that are interested in
being early adopters for 5g smartphones
the technology sounds awesome and
they're gonna advertise those phones
quite well you're gonna be tempted my
point is in this current world of what
we live in like 5g enabled networks
are gonna be rolled out very slowly so
if you're gonna spend your money like
unless you're just jonesing from that 5
g experience it's gonna be a huge
premium for something that won't be an
amazing experience because it can't be
this early on its gonna get there this
is the groundwork for it but right now I
would just hold off on 5g enable
smartphones because that's just reality
it's not gonna be that good at launch ok
hope you guys enjoyed this video thumbs
we liked it subs you loved it
see you guys next time
[Music]